Hello everyone and welcome to the project exercise solutions lecture for clustering with SPARK.
Let's jump to the exercise script and start coding out the solutions for the project exercise.
All right so here you have the exercise scripts and we'll be doing is just working through solutions
and as a quick note you can always reference's Kamins underscore project underscore solution script
right here for all the code that I will be actually typing out.
So jumping back to the actual exercise.
Let's start off.
Let's go to the tasks and I will scroll down and start by importing a spark session.
So I will say import or Apache.
The spark thought sequel spark session.
All right we have our imported sparks session.
Here's the following code to use for error reporting.
Set it to be a little lower and the next we want to create a Sparks session instance just as we've done
in the past.
I will say Val SPARC is equal to spark session builder and then get or create.
Next I want to import the K means clustering algorithm.
So say import or that Apache Sparke M-L we're using clustering algorithms and I want the K means the
M is capitalized there.
Next I want to load in the wholesale customers data so you could have downloaded it from the link that's
posted here.
Or you have it actually here as wholesale customers data that see every file will start off by saying
Val.
Data set is equal to spark the read option and I will set the headers to be true.
Because if you look at the CSP file it does contain a header and then I also want to set the option
of inferring schema to be true.
So I'll say in first Kema
and it's a C every file so say that C is free and then passen wholesale.
Space customers Space Data CXXVI.
All right so now that we have that Elisha's actually make sure everything worked.
I'm going to save this Skala a script open up a new terminal here and under my clustering folder start
a spark shell enter let the spark shell load and then I'm just going to load up that script load means
wups make sure that's capital M Kamins underscore project underscore exorcized Scala enter and looks
like everything's working so far.
Make sure we read that dataset correctly
and to confirm that we read it collect correctly I can just say data sets the current schema enter and
we can see the schema here.
So I have channel region and then these columns and I'm actually going to be using fresh milk grocery
frozen etc..
So up next is to select the following columns.
These columns right here and to call this new subset feature data.
So let's do that.
I will say Val wups feature data feature underscore data is equal to my dataset selects and I'm going
to select these Collinge right here so I can actually just copy and paste them make my life a little
easier.
And then make sure these are actually columns now.
Not always do you have to use that dollar sign notation.
I've personally noticed that across different operating systems.
Some require it and some do not.
Especially depending on what version of SPARC you're using.
So basically for safety I would recommend that you put in these dollar signs.
A lot of times I've noticed that it doesn't really need the dollar signs so it's up to you.
But there we have it and the next I want to import vector assembler and vectors as we then the past.
We actually put all these features into a single column of an array of all the features so say import
or the Apache that spark that M-L that feature and then I'm going to say that assembler and then up
next I will say import or Apache that SPARC the M-L.
Lynn alge and vector's
up next what I want to do is what we've always done is to create a new vector similar object called
assembler for the feature columns as the input set the column output to be called just features.
Then remember there's no label column because this is unsupervised learning so I will say Vau assembler
is a new vector assembler object.
I will set the input calls so set and put calls to be in array of these features here.
So let me just copy and paste these and then we want these to be strings so I will delete these dollar
signs.
So we'll delete that one this one this one and this one.
All right.
So we have an array and then up next the last thing we want to do is actually set the output column.
So we will say set output call or remember this is just lowercase features.
So basically everything we've done in the past except this time it's just no label.
Then we want to use that assembler object to transform the feature data and we call this new data.
The training data.
So I will say this.
Val training underscore data is equal to assembler.
Transform feature underscored data.
And after we transformed.
I really just want to select that features column.
Next we want to create a Kamins model with K equal to 3.
So that's quite easy.
We just save Val some object in this case Kamins is a new Kamins model and then set K to be equal to
3.
And if you want.
You can also see this but it's not terribly important so we'll just set a seed and then we will say
fit that model to the training data.
That's just going to be avowe model call came means and call it off of it onto your training data.
And we're not doing any train to split here because unsupervised learning.
So in order to evaluate we're going to compute the within set some of square errors and SPARC makes
this quite easy.
This is just like we did in the documentation example that we'll call model compute cost training underscore
data and then show the result of this.
So I can just say prints line and use some string interpellation here.
So lowercase s quotes.
I'm going to say something like the within said squirter.
So just copy and paste this line
was and then we can use this string interpellation notation and just passen the variable name when extra
s there and if you want you can also report the cluster centers optional.
It's up to you but let's actually run this I've saved it press of my arrow key and run load Kamins project
exercise that Skala.
Make sure when I have any errors here enter we should see everything.
Load up get that data get those vectors create the Kamins object Traina and running it.
All right so here are results.
And depending on whether you set a seed here or not you may get slightly different results than what
I've shown here but they should definitely be in the same order of magnitude and definitely around somewhere
between 7 and 9.
All right.
Hope you enjoy this exercise project again.
K means clustering.
It's actually quite simple.
We can report back here how well we were able to actually cluster the data and the larger the error.
It means it wasn't the right value.
So what I recommend doing now is actually experimenting with some other k value.
So for instance putting in for here.
See if you can separate those other regions.
So I will load Kamins project again.
Let's see for error goes up or down.
After running this.
So here it actually goes down.
Which means it's actually a better fit with four clusters instead of three clusters.
That makes sense because if you look back at the actual dataset remember we only had two defined regions
and that third one was actually called other regions which means that there's more than one other region.
So we can do is keep experimenting with K and I encourage you to do this and see what gives you eventually
the lowest sum of squares.
And this should give us lower and eventually you're going to get lower and lower but it will plateau.
And that's basically that Elbot method that we're discussing over in the Kamins theory lecture if you
keep upping the k your air will go down.
But eventually the change is not going to be worth the extra computation of setting another cluster.
So keep that in mind what you should do is using some other program or some sort of visualization maybe
Excel is track this error amounts as you lower K and eventually you should see that elbow where it stops
dropping as you go to a higher and higher value.
So let's go to something like eight and run this see if we get a whole lot lower.
So we get 3.7.
Let's run this to something like 16 which is a whole lot of clusters.
So run that again and make it something like 2.2 9.
So you notice that the dropping is getting less and less so from 8 to 16 it only dropped about 1.
And that's actually around the same drop that we're experiencing from something like four to five or
five to six.
So you would definitely see that elbow again I encourage you to play around these k values and actually
check out that elbowing yourself in the set of the error results.
OK.
Hope you enjoyed this project and I will see at the next lecture if you have any questions feel free
to post the Q&A forums.